 

 

*Project Title*: **RE**mind me my **MED**ications)

Project Acronym: **REMED**

 

 

 

Παραδοτέο: Υλοποίηση εφαρμογής για Android4.4 and above – Εγχειρίδιο Χρήσης

Deliverable: App implementation for Android4.4 and above – User Manual

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Funded by Μονάδες Αριστείας Ανοιχτού Λογισμικού (ma.ellak.gr)

 

 

Released 30-09-2015

  


 

 

Executive Summary
=================

 

In this deliverable the user manual of the REMED mobile app is presented with
illustrative screenshots (from the Android Studio Emulator) and the necessary
explanations are provided. The contents of each screen are presented in detail
and all identified drop down lists are included in the deliverable.

The source code is available at
<https://github.com/ellak-monades-aristeias/REMED/tree/master/android_app/Remed>
.

Installing the
<https://github.com/ellak-monades-aristeias/REMED/blob/master/android_app/Remed/mobile/mobile-release.apk>
enables a user to test the app in its own smartphone.

Debugging is continuing as testing is and the release of a market-ready app is
our objective for the next months.

 

  


 

**Table of Figures**

 

[Figure 1: the home screen with all the basic
functionalities.](<#_Toc432668814>)

[Figure 2: the menu that includes all the designed screens.](<#_Toc432668815>)

[Figure 3: The profile screen; buggy at the moment, when fixed the user will be
able to see his/her profile.](<#_Toc432668816>)

[Figure 4: the medications screen; the user is able to remove, edit, add or just
see his/ her medications.](<#_Toc432668817>)

[Figure 5: The Pillbox; it will be enriched, currently shows a list with the
added medications.](<#_Toc432668818>)

[Figure 6: Viewing the list of medications with more details.](<#_Toc432668819>)

[Figure 7: View a single medication with more details.](<#_Toc432668820>)

[Figure 8: the user finds the medication by name and then removes it.
](<#_Toc432668821>)

[Figure 9: Edit/ Update medication screen; the user can modify whatever he/ she
needs to in an imported medication and then selects the EDIT
button.](<#_Toc432668822>)

[Figure 10: The user can add a new medication and define all parameters that are
analysed in the next screenshots. When he is over he selects the SAVE
button.](<#_Toc432668823>)

[Figure 11: The reminders time drop down list available when adding or editing a
medication.](<#_Toc432668824>)

[Figure 12: The set start date, i.e. the first date you are taking a new
medication, drop down list available when adding or editing a
medication.](<#_Toc432668825>)

[Figure 13: The set time drop down list available when adding or editing a
medication.](<#_Toc432668826>)

[Figure 14: The set days (that the user will be taking a medication) drop down
list available when adding or editing a medication.](<#_Toc432668827>)

[Figure 15: The shape of pills drop down list available when adding or editing a
medication.](<#_Toc432668828>)

[Figure 16: The colour of pills drop down list available when adding or editing
a medication.](<#_Toc432668829>)

[Figure 17: The type of medication drop down list available when adding or
editing a medication.](<#_Toc432668830>)

[Figure 18:  The instructions drop down list available when adding or editing a
medication.](<#_Toc432668831>)

[Figure 19: The missed medications
screen.](<file:///C:\Users\medlab1\Desktop\remed\REMED%20App%20implementation%20for%20Android4.4%20and%20above%20–%20User%20Manual.docx#_Toc432668832>)

[Figure 20: Reports are ongoing work; when ready it will provide stats with
adherence.](<#_Toc432668833>)

[Figure 21: The settings screen.](<#_Toc432668834>)

[Figure 22: Help screen with this user manual (in pdf) and contact
details.](<#_Toc432668835>)

  


 

User Manual
===========

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 1.png>)

Figure 1: the home screen with all the basic functionalities

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 2.png>)

Figure 2: the menu that includes all the designed screens

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 3.png>)

Figure 3: The profile screen; buggy at the moment, when fixed the user will be
able to see his/her profile

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 4.png>)

Figure 4: the medications screen; the user is able to remove, edit, add or just
see his/ her medications

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 5.png>)

Figure 5: The Pillbox; it will be enriched, currently shows a list with the
added medications

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 6.png>)

Figure 6: Viewing the list of medications with more details

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 7.png>)

Figure 7: View a single medication with more details

 

  


 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 8.png>)

Figure 8: the user finds the medication by name and then removes it

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 9.png>)

Figure 9: Edit/ Update medication screen; the user can modify whatever he/ she
needs to in an imported medication and then selects the EDIT button

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 10.png>)

Figure 10: The user can add a new medication and define all parameters that are
analysed in the next screenshots. When he is over he selects the SAVE button

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 11.png>)

Figure 11: The reminders time drop down list available when adding or editing a
medication

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 12.png>)

Figure 12: The set start date, i.e. the first date you are taking a new
medication, drop down list available when adding or editing a medication

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 13.png>)

Figure 13: The set time drop down list available when adding or editing a
medication

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 14.png>)

Figure 14: The set days (that the user will be taking a medication) drop down
list available when adding or editing a medication

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 15.png>)

Figure 15: The shape of pills drop down list available when adding or editing a
medication

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 16.png>)

Figure 16: The colour of pills drop down list available when adding or editing a
medication

 

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 17.png>)

Figure 17: The type of medication drop down list available when adding or
editing a medication

 

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 18.png>)

Figure 18:  The instructions drop down list available when adding or editing a
medication

 

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 19.png>)

Figure 19: The missed medications screen

  


 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 20.png>)

Figure 20: Reports are ongoing work; when ready it will provide stats with
adherence

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 21.png>)

Figure 21: The settings screen

 

 

 

 

![](<C:/Users/medlab1/Desktop/remed/manual figures/fig 22.png>)

Figure 22: Help screen with this user manual (in pdf) and contact details

 

 

 
