 

 

*Project Title*: **RE**mind me my **MED**ications)

Project Acronym: **REMED**

 

 

 

Παραδοτέο: Testing – αξιολόγηση από 10 χρήστες  
(με το System Usability Scale και την δική μας έκδοση του Software Usability
Measurement Inventory)

Deliverable: Testing – evaluation with 10 users  
(with System Usability Scale and our version of Software Usability Measurement
Inventory)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Funded by Μονάδες Αριστείας Ανοιχτού Λογισμικού (ma.ellak.gr)

 

 

Released 15-10-2015

 

 

 

Executive Summary
=================

In this deliverable the evaluation of the REMED app is presented. The System
Usability Scale (SUS) and our version of Software Usability Measurement
Inventory (SUMI) were employed as they are the two most useful, and compliant
with the needs of the project, methods. The Technology Assessment Module was
omitted and replaced by SUMI since it more suitable for our purposes. The
evaluation was done with online questionnaires implemented with Google Forms.
The open source Google Forms (that are part of Google Drive) is a free service
for small-scale surveying. Google Forms offers an unlimited amount of surveys
and space for well over 1,000 responses. There are also themes for the look and
feel of the survey and the software makes email or web embedding easy and, being
Google, there are a number of ways to visualize your data.

The limited time of the pilot was one important limitation of the evaluation and
the participants agreed that the evaluation will be more objective and complete
if it is repeated in two weeks. Since the questionnaires were implemented as
online forms and the processing is easier after the preparation of this
deliverable the evaluation activity will be repeated after two weeks since
preparing a market-ready app is within our interests.

 

 

 

The System Usability Scale (SUS)
================================

 

The System Usability Scale (SUS)[[1]](<#_ftn1>) that provides a “quick and
dirty”, reliable tool for measuring the usability will be adopted in
Telecardiology.   It consists of a 10 item questionnaire with five response
options for respondents; from Strongly agree to Strongly disagree.  Originally
created by John Brooke in 1986, it allows the user to evaluate a wide variety of
products and services, including hardware, software, mobile devices, websites
and applications.  

 

**Benefits of using a SUS**

SUS has become an industry standard, with references in over 1300 articles and
publications.  The noted benefits of using SUS include that it:

-   Is a very easy scale to administer to participants

-   Can be used on small sample sizes with reliable results

-   Is valid – it can effectively differentiate between usable and unusable
    systems

 

**Considerations when using a SUS**

If you are considering using a SUS, keep the following in mind:

-   The scoring system is somewhat complex

-   There is a temptation, when you look at the scores, since they are on a
    scale of 0-100, to interpret them as percentages, they are not

-   The best way to interpret your results involves “normalizing” the scores to
    produce a percentile ranking

-   SUS is not diagnostic - its use is in classifying the ease of use of the
    site, application or environment being tested

 

**The System Usability Scale**

When a SUS is used, participants are asked to score the following 10 items with
one of five responses that range from Strongly Agree to Strongly disagree:

1.  I think that I would like to use this system frequently.

2.  I found the system unnecessarily complex.

3.  I thought the system was easy to use.

4.  I think that I would need the support of a technical person to be able to
    use this system.

5.  I found the various functions in this system were well integrated.

6.  I thought there was too much inconsistency in this system.

7.  I would imagine that most people would learn to use this system very
    quickly.

8.  I found the system very cumbersome to use.

9.  I felt very confident using the system.

10. I needed to learn a lot of things before I could get going with this system.

**Using SUS**

The SU scale is generally used after the respondent has had an opportunity to
use the system being evaluated, but before any debriefing or discussion takes
place. Respondents should be asked to record their immediate response to each
item, rather than thinking about items for a long time.

All items should be checked. If a respondent feels that they cannot respond to a
particular item, they should mark the centre point of the scale.

**Scoring SUS**

SUS yields a single number representing a composite measure of the overall
usability of the system being studied. Note that scores for individual items are
not meaningful on their own.

To calculate the SUS score, first sum the score contributions from each item.
Each item's score contribution will range from 0 to 4. For items 1,3,5,7,and 9
the score contribution is the scale position minus 1. For items 2,4,6,8 and 10,
the contribution is 5 minus the scale position. Multiply the sum of the scores
by 2.5 to obtain the overall value of SU.

SUS scores have a range of 0 to 100.

 

**Interpreting Scores**

Interpreting scoring can be complex. The participant’s scores for each question
are converted to a new number, added together and then multiplied by 2.5 to
convert the original scores of 0-40 to 0-100.  Though the scores are 0-100,
these are not percentages and should be considered only in terms of their
percentile ranking.

Based on research, a SUS score above a 68 would be considered above average and
anything below 68 is below average, however the best way to interpret your
results involves “normalizing” the scores to produce a percentile ranking.

 

**Our online**
<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/1wycB22e1BSk_GBbmH7x_0rJrcdlLd_Uu_ycFVbVbUoA/viewform>
** SUS questionnaire **

 

 

The Software Usability Measurement Inventory (SUMI)
===================================================

 

The Software Usability Measurement Inventory[[2]](<#_ftn2>) is a rigorously
tested and proven method of measuring software quality from the end user's point
of view.

SUMI is a consistent method for assessing the quality of use of a software
product or prototype, and can assist with the detection of usability flaws
before a product is shipped.

 

**Who should use SUMI?**

SUMI is recommended to any organisation which wishes to measure the
perceived **quality of use** of software, either as a developer, a consumer of
software, or as a purchaser/consultant. SUMI is increasingly being used to
set *quality of use requirements* by software procurers.

IN REMED our custom version of SUMI will be effectively used to:

-   assess the app

-   make comparisons between versions of the app (it will be repeated)

-   set targets for future app developments

 

SUMI is being used specifically to:

-   set verifiable goals for quality of use attainment

-   track achievement of targets during product development

-   highlight good and bad aspects of an interface.

SUMI is the *de facto* industry standard questionnaire for analysing users'
responses to desktop software or software applications provided through the
internet as the one developed during REMED.

SUMI consists of 50 statements to which the user has to reply that they either
Agree, Don't Know, or Disagree. In REMED we have adopted just the 13 more
relevant to the scope of our evaluation and we only care about the general
feeling of the user as expressed with Agree, Don't Know, or Disagree, i.e. since
the users and the questions are limited we do not need a statistical analysis
which is beyond the scope of this project.

 

**Our online**
<https://docs.google.com/forms/d/15_Iokes77oNtcCoHns5sr7cCiiRdFEzUGc-i9sXP6mw/viewform>
**SUMI questionnaire **

 

 

Usability evaluation
====================

The overall usability evaluation is depicted in the table below

![](<../../../../Desktop/remed/evaluation figures/SUS total.png>)

 

The average score is 75.25, i.e. it is above the 68 threshold defined by the
methodology.

Of course a more detailed analysis can give us the following conclusions:

·         Users that do not have smartphones have inherent difficulty in using
and understanding the concept of such mobile apps.

·         Software engineers may either fully understand the concept or give it
the lowest score (40) since they expect to see a flawless and complete app with
easy navigation and good graphics.

 

Of particular interest and an encouraging aspect of the evaluation that the
average SUS score of all questions was good and users for the most agreed that
they think that they would not need the support of a technical person to be able
to use this app.

On the other hand they found the app pretty cumbersome to use and they had to
learn some things before being able to use it.

 

![](<../../../../Desktop/remed/evaluation figures/SUS average.png>)

 

**SUMI Evaluation**

The overall satisfaction of the users is depicted in the table below

The order of the users is the same as above with SUS.

![](<../../../../Desktop/remed/evaluation figures/SUMI total.png>)

The encouraging conclusions are:

·         Most would recommend the app to others

·         The way the information is presented is clear, interpretable and
enough

·         The user needs have been taken into account

·         A few steps are required in all cases for all functionalities

·         It is easy to find the choices in the screens

 

The discouraging conclusions are:

·         Most users agree that the app should more attractive

·         More help is needed for the user

·         Sometimes users are confused concerning what they have to do next

·         Some unexpected screens can be anticipated

 

 

 

[[1]](<#_ftnref1>)
http://www.usability.gov/how-to-and-tools/methods/system-usability-scale.html

[[2]](<#_ftnref2>) http://sumi.ucc.ie/
